Ansible tutorial misc. edits (#2165)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/admin/tutorials/ansible/tutorial.md

```ini
[webservers]
web_1.host.fqdn.or.ip

> web_2.host.fqdn.or.ip

Reviewer: maybe we show a hostname example below, maybe just use an IP here. [ip ranges for docs](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5737)

Author: Done. And yes, I think it's better this way.

│   ├── main.yml
│   └── ...
├── templates
│   ├── stratum1_squid.conf.j2

> │   └── ...

Author: We don't mention the `tests` folder, so I don't think it's relevant in the context of this tutorial. (That scheme doesn't have to reflect the entire structure of the cvmfs role, I think?)

> │   └── ...

Reviewer 2: Fair enough, I've updated the suggestion.

> │   └── ...

Author: Thanks!

└── vars

>     ├── debian.yml
>     ├── main.yml
>     └── redhat.yml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ├── ...
    ├── main.yml
    └── ...
```

Author: I suggest keeping the distribution names here: they are mentioned as an example in the text describing the `var` folder.

Reviewer 2: The 2 files have been renamed in the role. I don't think we need to mention them explicitly any way, since the `vars` description below doesn't rely on having separate files to define the variables.

Here we have two tasks. Each has a `name` that will be shown to the person running the playbook.

> The first invokes the [`yum`](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/yum_module.html) module with the arguments `name: cvmfs, state: ...`. This will use yum to install the package named `cvmfs`. The state parameter uses a [Jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/) template to evaluate the value of the variable `cvmfs_upgrade_client`. We can [grep through](https://github.com/galaxyproject/ansible-cvmfs/search?q=cvmfs_upgrade_client&unscoped_q=cvmfs_upgrade_client) the repository and see that `defaults/main.yml` sets that to `false` by default. We can override this if we need, we'll come back to that later. The first task also has a `when` condition to ensure it only runs on RHEL family machines, so RedHat or CentOS. It is better to use the OS-generic [`package`](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/package_module.html) module, if possible.

Reviewer 2: The "Install CernVM-FS client (yum)" task above has been substantially changed in the `ansible-cvmfs` role and doesn't use `cvmfs_upgrade_client` directly any more. I'd suggest to replace that part of the example with:

```yaml
- name: Download cvmfs_preload utility when desired
  get_url:
    url: https://cvmrepo.web.cern.ch/cvmrepo/preload/cvmfs_preload
    dest: "{{ cvmfs_preload_path }}/cvmfs_preload"
    owner: root
    group: root
    mode: 755
  when: cvmfs_preload_install | bool
```

from https://github.com/galaxyproject/ansible-cvmfs/blob/master/tasks/client.yml , which still use a standard module ([get_url](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/get_url_module.html)), Jinja2 with a greppable variable, and a `when` condition.

Author: I'll make the change

Author: @nsoranzo I've updated the example; could you check the wording, please?

Here we have two tasks. Each has a `name` that will be shown to the person running the playbook.

> The first invokes the [`get_url`](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/get_url_module.html) module with the arguments `url: ..., dest: ..., owner: root, group: root, mode: 755`. This will download a file from `url` to the location specified in `dest`, change user and group ownership to `owner` and `group`, respectively, and assign permissions specified in `mode`. The `dest` parameter uses a [Jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/) template to evaluate the value of the variable `cvmfs_preload_path`. We can [grep through](https://github.com/galaxyproject/ansible-cvmfs/search?q=cvmfs_preload_path) the repository and see that `defaults/main.yml` sets that to `/usr/bin` by default. We can override this if we need, we'll come back to that later. The first task also has a `when` condition to ensure it only runs when the `cvmfs_preload_install` variable is set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first example invokes the [`get_url`](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/get_url_module.html) module with 5 arguments (`url`, `dest`, `owner`, `group` and `mode`). This will download a file from the location indicated in `url` to the directory specified by `dest`, change user and group ownerships to `root`, and change file permissions to `755` (as assigned by the `mode` argument). The `dest` parameter uses a [Jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/) template to evaluate the value of the variable `cvmfs_preload_path`. We can [grep through](https://github.com/galaxyproject/ansible-cvmfs/search?q=cvmfs_preload_path) the repository and see that `defaults/main.yml` sets that to `/usr/bin` by default. We can override this if we need, we'll come back to that later. The first task also has a `when` condition to ensure it only runs when the `cvmfs_preload_install` variable is set.
```

Author: Thanks!

{% raw %}- package name={{ package_name }} state={{ package_state }}{% endraw %}
```

> Some groups prefer one style or another. You can mix both of these but you probably shouldn't. The YAML style requires that the templated value is quoted (if the value after the colon starts with a "{"). The inline style does not require quoting of templated values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some groups prefer one style or another. You can mix both of these but you probably shouldn't. The YAML style requires that the templated value is quoted (if the value after the colon starts with a `{`). The inline style does not require quoting of templated values.
```

> Some groups prefer one style or another. You can mix both of these but you probably shouldn't. The YAML style requires that the templated value is quoted (if the value after the colon starts with a `{`). The inline style does not require quoting of templated values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some groups prefer one style or another. You can mix both of these but you probably shouldn't. In the YAML style the templated value needs to be quoted if the value after the colon starts with a `{` (see https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/playbooks_variables.html#when-to-quote-variables-a-yaml-gotcha ). The inline style does not require quoting of templated values.
```

>        dest: /tmp/test.txt
>    ```
>
>    You can read about all of the parameters available to the [`copy`](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/copy_module.html) module in Ansible's documentation.
>
>    > ### {% icon details %} Ansible Module Documentation

> >    > You can usually find a module for most commands you will run in a shell. Usually by searching the internet for "ansible do-some-action" (e.g. "ansible copy file to server" or "ansible restart service)." If you cannot find a module that does it, there is the [`command`](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/command_module.html) module, but this should be avoided if possible. Expect to have a browser session with 10-30 different Ansible module documentation tabs if you work with Ansible regularly, no one remembers what arguments are available to every module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>    > You can usually find a module for most commands you will run in a shell, e.g. by searching the internet for "ansible copy file to server" or "ansible restart service". If you cannot find a module that does it, there is the [`command`](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/command_module.html) module, but this should be avoided if possible. Expect to have a browser session with 10-30 different Ansible module documentation tabs if you work with Ansible regularly, no one remembers what arguments are available to every module.
```

>    > > ```
>    > > - downloading role 'git', owned by geerlingguy
>    > > - downloading role from https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-git/archive/3.0.0.tar.gz

> >    > > - extracting geerlingguy.git to /home/xhr/ansible/intro/roles/geerlingguy.git

Reviewer: This should probably be ubuntu for the user, right?

Author: I wasn't sure we wanted to expose that username - I don't remember if we used it for attendees last time, or just trainers, so I kept `xhr`. So yes, let's use `ubuntu` then. I'll change it for all other occurrences too.

Author: done.
